# Platform Development Kit

A way to help the development of Ubuntu Touch. Runs an Ubuntu Touch emulator that
has little pre-installed, yet (no indicators or no core apps so far). It allows you
to build, install and test system components.

## Goals:

- Make debugging platform components easy
- Don't worry about porting
- Lower barrier to entry for contributors


## Installation:

- Linux with Snap:
  - `sudo snap install --beta ubports-pdk`
  - `sudo snap connect ubports-pdk:kvm`
  - `sudo snap connect ubports-pdk:network-control`
- macOS & other Linux: Clone this repository or download a copy of it from GitHub

On Linux, make sure that your user account is in the `kvm` group:
- Ubuntu 18.04 and earlier:
  - `sudo groupadd kvm`
  - `sudo usermod -aG kvm $USER`
- Ubuntu 20.04 and up:
  - `sudo usermod -aG kvm $USER`

## Usage:

For the snap version, use the command `ubports-pdk.pdk` instead of `ubuntu-touch-pdk`.

- `ubuntu-touch-pdk setup`: Sets up the environment and mounting capabilities for your development needs
- `ubuntu-touch-pdk pull`: Download the freshest development image (based on focal)
- `ubuntu-touch-pdk run`: Run the development VM instance

Changes within a VM are persistent until you run the `pull` command again. You can have separate VMs
by adding `--name=my_custom_vm` to the `pull` and `run` commands.

For more options, please run the command with the `-h` flag.

## Tutorial: Fetching package sources

When logged into the VM instance (user: root, password: root) you're able to clone UBports repositories using `ubports-clone`. Let's try that with `indicator-network`.

```
root@linux:~# ubports-clone indicator-network
```

This will download the sources from Git and make them available in your PDK workspace (configured during the `ubuntu-touch-pdk setup` step).

Within the VM instance you're able to access those files in `/pdk/sources`.


## Tutorial: Building package sources

Still logged into the VM instance, you're able to trigger a build of your cloned sources using `ubports-build`, ie for `indicator-network`:

```
root@linux:~# ubports-build indicator-network
```

This will copy your sources over to the VM, build the source code and publish Debian packages easily accessible from within your PDK workspace. For `indicator-network` those files will be located in `$PDK_WORKSPACE/sources/indicator-network`

The same Debian packages generated by the `ubports-build` command can be installed into the VM, like: `sudo apt install /pdk/sources/indicator-network/*.deb`

## Troubleshooting

Running on distributions other than Ubuntu is possible, but not guaranteed yet.

### Reset PDK

To reset the PDK completely, remove the environment directory you chose on setup
as well as your configuration file, which is located in one of the following:

- Linux with Snap: `$SNAP_USER_COMMON/config.sh` (e.g. `$HOME/snap/ubports-pdk/common/config.sh`)
- Other Linux: `$HOME/.config/UbuntuTouchPdk/config.sh`
- Mac: `$HOME/Library/Caches/UbuntuTouchPdk/config.sh`

### Nvidia GPU Support Note

There are currently known issues with NVIDIA GPUs. If the QEMU window remains black after starting the PDK and logging into the VM instance, this may be the case.

In order to check which video card you are using, you can run the following command on host side:
```
glxinfo|egrep "OpenGL vendor|OpenGL renderer"
```
And if a discrete Nvidia graphics card is used, and there is onboard Intel and PRIME is supported, executing `sudo prime-select intel` to switch and then rebooting may help.

## Technical details:

- Preconfigured QEMU with OpenGL support
- Focus on Linux and macOS as host systems first
- Intel images on Intel hardware, ARM64 on ARM64 hardware (Mac M1)
- 20.04 off-the-shelf kernel
- Rootfs builds taken straight from Debos
- Utilities that wrap around Git and make it easier to pull sources
- Utilities around building and testing UT components
